# Vim

Vim is a free and open source text editor. The name comes from concatenating Vi (Bill Joy's predecessor) and Improved. Its author is Bram Moolenaar.

There is a long running joke on the internet that once beginners enter Vim they can't leave. So first things first, lets open a file, add some text, save it and leave.

As we learned in the command line section you can create a file in your current directory using:

`touch insert_new_file_name.md`

Then you can open the file using Vim:

`vim insert_new_file_name.md`

You are now in the file. To insert some text in the file hit `i` which stands for insert. Then write whatever you want. For example:

`Hello world. I am writing in my Vim text editor.`

Now hit the Escape (Esc) key and then `:x`, a colon followed by `x` and then the Enter key. You will save the text in your file and exit.

Alternatively you can leave Vim without saving your changes.

Open your file again:

`vim insert_new_file_name.md`

Hit `i` to insert text. Use the arrow keys to go to end of the previous text and write something. For example: 

`This is some text I don't want to save.`

Now hit the Escape (Esc) key and then `:q!`, a colon followed by `q` and `!` and then the Enter key. You will exit your file and not save your changes.

## Navigating around the file

Now you can open a file, make changes and close the file let's discuss navigating around a file using Vim. Without a mouse you can't just move your cursor to move to say Line 16 of a file. You can use the arrow keys to move around but this will take a long time if you have a very large file or a long paragraph of text. We've already learnt `i` for insert so now let's learn a few more Vim shortcuts. You need to be out of insert mode so press the Escape (Esc) key before trying these.

`j` - Move one line down

`k` - Move line up

`w` - Move one word right

`b` - Move one word left

`6j` - Move 6 lines down

`gg` - Move to beginning of file

`G` - Move to end of file

This is going to all feel very unwieldy for a while and you'll probably wonder why you are bothering. But just like command line you only get to experience the true power of Vim once you've learnt the basics. It is worth it in the end if you persevere. Perhaps write these shortcuts on a post it note by your laptop until they become second nature.

## References

Practical Vim (Drew Neil): https://www.amazon.com/Practical-Vim-Edit-Speed-Thought/dp/1680501275/
