# SSH

To use Git we need to get set up with GitHub and SSH. We will be using GitHub as the server we are pulling code from and pushing code to. To pull and push code from this server we need to verify that we are who we say we are. We do this using cryptographic keys.

Bitcoin uses private, public key pairs to authenticate that a user has the ability to move coins. If you don’t have the private key associated with a public key you can’t move them. With Git we use a different set of keys to ensure that only the user with a particular private key can push code to a particular repo. This prevents you (or anybody else) pushing code directly to say the Bitcoin Core or Core Lightning repos without getting those code changes signed off by the maintainers of those projects. Pulling code from those repos is more relaxed, anybody with any SSH keys can do that. This allows you to pull the code down to your local machine, run it and if you so wish change the code. Of course you shouldn’t change the code if you have actual Bitcoin relying on that code (at least until you know what you are doing!). But to experiment, test and play around with signet Bitcoin (not actual Bitcoin, we will introduce this later) it is encouraged.

If you don’t already have one sign up for a GitHub account at [github.com](https://github.com/). This is free unless you need particular GitHub services such as private repositories. 

We will now generate the SSH keys in our Terminal, store them and tell GitHub about them.

## Generating a new SSH key

In your Terminal paste the following text before pressing Enter (substituting in the email address you signed up to GitHub with):

```
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"
```

This creates a new SSH key using the email address as a label.

TBC

## Connecting to GitHub with SSH

## Connecting to a Digital Ocean droplet with SSH

```
ssh root@insert_ip_address
```

If you have multiple SSH keys you will need to specify the path of your private key using the `-i` flag:

```
ssh -i /path/to/private/key username@insert_ip_address
```

You may also need to [adjust permissions](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9270734/ssh-permissions-are-too-open) if you get a `bad permissions` error message.

The permissions on your SSH public key and private key should be:

```
-rw-------   1 michaelfolkson  staff  2635 14 May 10:43 id_digital_ocean
-rw-------   1 michaelfolkson  staff   595 14 May 10:43 id_digital_ocean.pub
```

You can change the permissions on your SSH public key using the `chmod` command:

```
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

To install some software (e.g. Homebrew) it may require you to switch user from `root`.

To create a new user (assuming you are signed in as the root user):

```
adduser insert_new_user_name
```

To view what groups your new user is in:

```
groups insert_new_user_name
```

To give this new user access to sudo:

```
usermod -aG sudo insert_new_user_name
```

Then to switch to this user from `root`:

```
su insert_new_user_name
```

To switch back to `root`:

```
exit
```


## References

Connecting to GitHub with SSH: <https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh>

Generating a new SSH key and adding it to the ssh-agent: <https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent>

How to Connect to your Droplet with OpenSSH: <https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/how-to/connect-with-ssh/openssh/>

Troubleshooting SSH permissions: <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9270734/ssh-permissions-are-too-open>

How to add and delete users on Ubuntu 20.04: <https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-add-and-delete-users-on-ubuntu-20-04>


