# Git

Now we have SSH setup with GitHub we can use Git to pull the codebase of any GitHub repository (repo) down to our local machine and do whatever we want with it. The first repo we will be interested in is the Bitcoin Core repo so we will use Bitcoin Core in this example but any GitHub repo could be used instead.

The Bitcoin Core repo is located here: <https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin>

To clone it or make a copy of it on our laptop we need to click on the green Code button of the GitHub interface, click on SSH to make sure we are getting the SSH link and then copy that SSH link.

The SSH link looks like this:

```
 git@github.com:bitcoin/bitcoin.git
```

Once we have this link copied we can go into our Terminal, navigate to the directory in which we want to clone the repo and then use the `git clone` command.

```
git clone git@github.com:bitcoin/bitcoin.git insert_new_directory_name
```

If you don’t insert a new directory name at the end of the command it will place the clone into a directory of the same name as the repo (`bitcoin` in this case).

Once it is cloned navigate into this new directory using the `cd` command.

```
cd insert_new_directory_name
```

Then you can run the Git command:

```
git remote -v
```

This will show you what remote repository you are linked to and the label of that repository. It will output something like this:

```
origin	git@github.com:bitcoin/bitcoin.git (fetch)
origin	git@github.com:bitcoin/bitcoin.git (push)
```

The label of the remote repository is `origin` and the SSH link should be familiar from earlier.

Then you can run the Git command:

```
git branch
```

This will output:

```
* master
```

This will tell you what Git branch you are on. Branches are a fundamental building block of Git. All the contributors of a project need to agree on what the latest state of the codebase is despite making changes locally on other branches. They do this by agreeing on a particular branch (named `master` here) to be the latest state of the project and then creating branches off from master to work on their own mini-projects. When those mini-projects are completed contributors will request that those changes on a different branch are merged into `master`, the latest state of the codebase. Whether and when it gets merged or not is ultimately decided by the maintainers of the project but other contributors will post their reviews on those changes which the maintainers will take into account before considering merging.

Now you have the code on your machine you can build and run it. To do this, move to the Bitcoin Core section (ADD reference to Bitcoin Core section). However, we haven’t scratched the surface on Git thus far so we will continue with Git here.
